docs(x-integration): review build search UI docs (#423)
empathyco/x: packages/x-components/static-docs/build-search-ui/web-archetype-development-guide.md

---
title: Develop using Interface X Archetype
tags:
  - development
  - archetype
  - X archetype development
  - x development
  - interface x
  - x components
  - archetype development
---

# Develop using Interface X Archetype 

In this tutorial, you’ll learn how to build a search and discovery layer based on predefined features and components in a matter of minutes using the Interface&nbsp;X&nbsp;Archetype.

For this tutorial, the Empathy Search API is used, but you can use any search API. This guide
requires knowledge of JavaScript and Vue.js.

::: note Before you begin

To use Interface&nbsp;X&nbsp;Archetype as a search UI layer, you need:

- **Empathy Search API** (or any search API that you use to retrieve search data).
- **Empathy Search Adapter** to communicate with the Empathy Search API (or any search adapter to
  connect with the search API you are using).

:::

##### Steps to build a search layer using the X Archetype project:

1. **Clone** the X&nbsp;Archetype project and **initialize** your repository.

> 2. Install the **project dependencies** and execute the project.

Reviewer: Does **run** sound better than **execute**? I would also clarify that it is the development server the thing you are running.
```suggestion
2. Install the **project dependencies** and run the project development server.
```

::: note

Although you configure the values for the `instance`, `language`, `scope`, and `endpoint` options

> when integrating the project, you can still change these values when the project is [deployed](web-archetype-integration-guide.md). Use

Author: Done!
